<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_o45_fg5_kh">
    <title>Installing the spdf4 plugin</title>
    <shortdesc>How to install the spdf4 plugin. </shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <prereq>
            <p>Before installing the plugin, you must download, install, configure, and test the
                DITA Open Toolkit. The spdf4 plugin has been tested with versions 1.5.4 and 1.6.1.
                You can find details about the DITA Open Toolkit at <xref
                    href="http://dita-ot.sourceforge.net/" format="html" scope="external"
                    >sourceforge.net</xref>. </p>
        </prereq>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Copy the spdf4 plugin folder (<filepath>com.kpe.spdf4</filepath>) to
                    the <filepath>plugins</filepath> folder in the DITA Open Toolkit.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Run the integrator to add the plugin to the DITA Open Toolkit.</cmd>
                <substeps id="substeps_inf_dh5_kh">
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Run the file <filepath>startcmd.bat</filepath> or
                                <filepath>startcmd.sh</filepath> to open a command window.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Enter the integration command</cmd>
                        <info>
                            <codeblock>ant -f integrator.xml</codeblock>
                        </info>
                        <stepresult>
                            <p>After just a second or two, you should see something similar to
                                this:</p>
                            <codeblock>bash-3.2$ ant -f integrator.xml
Buildfile: integrator.xml

integrate:

BUILD SUCCESSFUL
Total time: 0 seconds
bash-3.2$ </codeblock>
                        </stepresult>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Run the spdf4 plugin.</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>There are a variety of ways to run the plugin, but the most basic is again
                        from the command
                        line:<codeblock>ant -f build.xml -Dargs.input=<varname>inputfile.ditamap</varname> -Doutput.dir=<varname>/test</varname> 
     -Dtranstype=<cmdname>spdf4</cmdname> -Dpdf-formatter=<cmdname>ah|fop|xep</cmdname></codeblock></p>
                    <note>
                        <p>The command line is split here for readability, but you should put the
                            entire command on one line with no carriage returns.</p>
                        <p>The various items shown in italics need to replaced with your specific
                            file names and directory paths.</p>
                    </note>
                </info>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
