<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_sbb_dr1_xf">
  <title>Design decisions and other notes</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>Dividing map into "chapters"</title>
      <p>Out of the box, the DITA OT processes the map into map-like structures (TOC, index.html,
        and so on).  Then each of the DITA topics subordinate to the map are processed, without
        further reference to the map. When creating the XHTML output, we want to pull all chapters
        together and output each of them as a "whole" HTML page. So, we need a different way of
        driving the HTML transforms. </p>
      <p>There are several approaches to drive the creation of chapters. <ul id="ul_gql_yr1_xf">
          <li>Create a series of sub maps from the DITA map or bookmap file, then process each in
            turn.</li>
          <li>Use the DITA map or bookmap file and the xsl:result-document directive.</li>
          <li>Use the topicmerge transform from the ODT or FO transtype, then use
            xsl:result-document when processing the merged file. </li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>HTML backmatter</title>
      <p>It would be nice to be able to use the &lt;backmatter> element to semantically contain the
        closing information in the bookmap for an XHMTL document.  However, there are several
        factors that make that difficult.  Prime among those is the fact that the backmatter doesn't
        allow a navtitle attribute or element. </p>
      <p>As things stand, to have a final chapter that encloses an "About" statement, related
        publications, trademark and copyright notices, and additional statements (such as the OEM
        statement), is a much more workable (and localizable) solution.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Revision history in XHTML and PDF</title>
      <p>The differences in processing XHMTL and PDF documents require two different ways of
        specifying where to insert the revision history table.</p>
      <p>In PDF bookmaps, the &lt;frontmatter> element should contain a &lt;trademarklist> element.
        The href in the &lt;trademarklist> element indicates the file containing the trademark
        information. The PDF plugin recognizes the &lt;trademarklist> element and automatically adds
        the revision history to p.ii of the document.</p>
      <p>In XHTML output, there are two different ways you can use to indicate where to place the
        revision history table.<ul id="ul_mdk_pwb_hg">
          <li>In the DITA topic containing the trademark information, assign an outputclass
            attribute with the value "trademark" to the &lt;topic> element. The plugin will then
            insert the revision history table at the end of this document.</li>
          <li>If you need to insert the revision history table at a specific location in the
            trademark topic (say between two specific paragraphs, or at the beginning of the
            trademark topic), add an empty &lt;bodydiv/> element with outputclass="revisions" where
            you want the plugin to insert the revision history table. </li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Adding titles to notes</title>To add additional titles to &lt;note> elements,
      the first &lt;p> in the &lt;note> should have outputclass="notetitle". </section>
    <section>
      <title>Development notes, todo's, and other</title>
      <p> </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Notes</title>
      <p>I've used @otherprops in the &lt;vrm> element for the page number that changed.  However, I
        would advise against continuing this practice (identifying the page that changed), because
        it's meaningful only in the PDF (and possibly only meaningful in the en-us version). </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Graphics</title>
      <p>For each PNG graphic used in a deliverable, export an SVG of the same image and make it
        available in the same folder as the PNG graphics.  If you don't want a figure to link to an
        SVG, use outputclass="nolink" </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
