<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_kn2_hl5_kh">
  <title>About FO processors</title>
  <shortdesc>Short reference description.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <p>Once you've specified an FO processor, you may need to perform further configuration for
        that processor. An instance of FOP lives within the DITA Open Toolkit's pdfs plugin (in the
        folder <filepath>spdf3/fop</filepath>). For other processors (Antenna House and RenderX),
        the location of the configuration files depends on where you installed the processor. </p>
      <ul id="ul_kzq_jud_dd">
        <li>
          <p><b>FOP</b> - The file <filepath>spdf/fop/conf/fop.xconf</filepath> indicates the
            configuration, including the path to the fonts. This can be the most difficult part of
            FOP configuration, because we have noticed that Adobe renames fonts when its products
            are installed. </p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p><b>Antenna House</b> - The files are in <filepath>C:\Program
                Files\AntennaHouse\AHFormatterV<varname>xx</varname></filepath> (the version number
            might be different). The most common file to modify for Antenna House is
              <filepath>font-config.xml</filepath>. Documentation for Antenna House (in HTML format)
            is in the <filepath>docs</filepath> folder. See <filepath>docs/ahf-font.html</filepath>
            for font configuration information, or just start with
              <filepath>docs/index.html</filepath>.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p><b>RenderX XEP</b> - To my knowledge, we haven't done a lot modifying RenderX XEP, nor
            have we worked with a stand-alone version of the product. When installed with XMetaL
            Enterprise, RenderX XEP is installed in: <filepath>C:\Program Files\Common Files\XMetaL
              Shared\renderx</filepath>. </p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
